关于美澳联手排华的动向——从AUKUS的角度
自从2017年以来，澳大利亚不断导向美国，导致与中国关系不断恶化。不出意外的话，G20峰会将会是自2017年以来，中澳高层间的第一次直接谈话。
澳大利亚对于美国的地位：
AUKUS是由澳大利亚、美国、英国组成的……。违反了核扩散原则。
为什么设立AUKUS？制衡中国在亚太地区的能力，进一步控制南海、台湾
G20上，中美澳在AUKUS上可能有第二次交锋，此前第一次是在国际原子能机构理事会会议上。

美国在中澳关系恶化中扮演的角色：From a strategic perspective, Australia is a guardian of the hegemonic system headed by the US, which increasingly perceives China's development as a threat. Preventing the rise of an emerging superpower capable of challenging American hegemony, especially in the Asia-Pacific region, has become a strategic consensus of the US and its allies. The US was extremely dissatisfied with the development of China-Australia relations, especially the development of the China-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership.   
Since the Obama administration, the US has kept pressuring Australia when it comes to its relations with China. US pressure is the most important external factor explaining the deterioration of China-Australia relations.
As is expected,G20 summit 2022 in Indonesia will be the first time for China and Autralia to hold top-level talks since 2017.
Although the Labor leader Anthony Albaneses,who was tagged "Pro-China" by Morison,won the election and  assumed office successfully,hardly can his actions taken after he has came to power convince China to expect a better bilateral relationship.
Hence,there is no doube that Australia,staunch follower of the US,will not change its anti-China stand in G20 and may further damage China-Autralis relationship in order to gain support from the US,after all,it is the US and the UK that helped the Australia to possess its first nuclear submarine through the "AUKUS",which will definitely be strongly opposed by China and other countries from the Asian-Pacific region during the G20 summit.
From the perspective of Chine,the AUKUS deal will bring about the risks of nuclear proliferation, trigger a regional arms race and damage regional peace and stability,threatening Chinese's infulence in China's South Sea situation and TaiWan's issue.
The AUKUS is the outcome of fears for China's growing dominance in the Asian-Pacific region,marking the US's ambition to balance China not only by economic power but also by militry power if necessary.To reach this object,in the G20 summit,no effort will be spared to rationalize the existence of AUKUS and expend its influence over the Asian-Pacific region to restric China.
